VNF Questionnaire

Section 1: VNF Product Details:
1.	Product General Information
o	Product Name:
o	Product version:
o	Provide a high level description of the product
2.	Company Contact Information
o	Company Name
o	Company Technical Contact
o	Email
o	Phone

Section 2: VNF Information:
A.	VNF Generic Details
3.	How many VNFCs are in the VNF?
4.	Are there any startup ordering dependencies?
5.	If there are startup order dependencies, explain the steps.

B.	VNF Component Details

I.	Software Image Details
6.	Software Image Details
o	Image file name
o	ID
o	Version
o	Checksum
o	VNF container format
o	VNF software image format
o	Minimum Primary VM block disk space for image required in GB
o	Minimum memory in MB  required for this image to run
o	Size of the image in GB
o	Operating System
o	Supported Virtualization Environment
o	License Information
	Product Activation key
	License Date Validity
	License Instance Validity
	License Additional Details			
II.	Network Details
7.	Internal Connection Point
o	ID / Name
o	Type of port
o	Layer Port - Identifies which protocol the CP uses for connectivity purposes
o	Internal Virtual Link Descriptor - Reference of a network ID in VLD
o	Bit Rate Requirement
o	Address Mappings
	Address Type (L2 or L3) : L2 Address / L3 Address
	L2 Address Details
•	MAC address of the port
•	VLAN ID of the port
•	Virtual Network ID of the port
	L3 Address Details
•	Specify if the address assignment is the responsibility of management and orchestration function or not. NOTE:  If it is set to True, it is the management and orchestration function responsibility. "
•	Floating IP activated?
•	IP Address Type (IPv4 or IPv6) : L2 Address / L3 Address
•	Number of IP addresses
8.	NIC Capability
III.	Compute Details
9.	ID / Name
10.	Additional Capability Details
o	Capability Name
o	Support Mandatory
o	Minimum version required for the capability
o	Preferred version for the capability
o	Targeted Performance Parameters
11.	Virtual Memory details
o	Virtual Memory Size
o	Subscription Policy
o	Huge page size
12.	Virtual CPU Details
o	CPU architecture
o	Number of vCPUs
o	Virtual CPU Clock
o	Virtual CPU Oversubscription Policy
o	Virtual CPU Pinning
	CPU Policy
	CPU Pinning Policy : static / dynamic
	CPU Pinning Map
IV.	Storage Details
13.	ID
14.	Cinder Volume Name
15.	Storage type
16.	Storage size in GB
17.	Does storage support RDMA
18.	Base file image
19.	Define boot order of Virtual Storage

V.	Deployment Flavor
20.	Provide deployment flavor details
o	Flavor ID
o	Description
o	VDU Profile
	Point to the VNFC ID / VDU ID
	Minimum number of instances allowed for this VNFC
	Maximum number of instances allowed for this VNFC
	Local Affinity Or Anti-Affinity Details
•	Affinity Or anti-affinity : Affinity / antiAffinity
•	Scope : NFVI-PoP / Zone / ZoneGroup / NFVI-node
•	Affinity Or AntiAffinity GroupId
o	Virtual link Profile
	Affinity Or AntiAffinity GroupId : Affinity / AntiAffinity
	Flavor ID
	Bit Rate Requirements
•	Leaf
•	Root
	Local Affinity Or Anti-Affinity Details
•	Affinity Or anti-affinity : Affinity / antiAffinity
•	Scope : NFVI-PoP / Zone / ZoneGroup / NFVI-node
•	Affinity Or AntiAffinity GroupId
	VNF Virtual Link Descriptor ID
o	Instantiation Level Details
	Level ID
	Description
	VDU Level
•	VDU ID
•	Number of instance of this VDU to deploy for this level
	Scaling Info - shall be present if the VNF supports scaling
•	Identifier of the scaling aspect
•	Scale level - Represents for each aspect the scale level that corresponds to this instantiation level. 
o	Default instantiation level for this VNF
o	Which operations are available for this DF via the VNF LCM interface : Scale Up / Scale Down / Scale In
o	Configuration parameters for the VNF Lifecycle Management operations
	VNF Operational configuration parameters
	VNF scaling Operational configuration parameters
	Is scaling by more than one step supported?
o	Affinity or anti-affinity group
o	Monitoring parameters
o	Scaling Aspect
C.	Management and Configuration Details
21.	Is there support for cloud-init? (Yes/No)
22.	Does VM require config-drive? (Yes/No)
23.	Does VM require passing custom configuration file in config-drive? (Yes/No)
24.	Does VM require passing custom configuration file in config-drive? (Yes/No)
25.	Does VM require metadata support? (Yes/No)
26.	Provide details on cloudinit/configuration templates/metadata required, if any. (Attach sample configuration/templates)
27.	What configuration parameters are required? (Provide example template in YAML format.)
28.	Does the VNF support a Native Application dashboard GUI?
29.	If yes, describe how to use/access the GUI (e.g., port # and credentials)?
30.	Does the VNF support SSH management?
31.	If SSH support is enabled by default, what are the default credentials?
32.	If not enabled by default, how is support enabled and configured?
33.	Does the VNF support NETCONF management?
34.	If NETCONF support is enabled by default, what are the default credentials?
35.	If not enabled by default, how is support enabled and configured?
36.	How can we determine if the VNF is ready to accept configuration post resource orchestration? Is there a preferred configuration mechanism/protocol?

D.	KPI Parameters
For monitoring, service assurance and scaling needs, provide relevant KPI access information.
37.	Protocol and port number:
38.	Username/password credentials:
39.	Corresponding endpoint URL:
40.	Display name:
41.	Short description:
42.	Access method (e.g., JSONPATH, OBJECTPATH):
43.	Access method parameters (e.g., ‘json_path’ : ‘$.system.mem_total’):
44.	Value-type of monitoring parameter (string, integer, decimal):
45.	Range of possible values:
46.	Display units, if applicable (e.g., MB, KB, %, etc.): 
47.	Display widget for monitoring parameter (counter, gauge):
48.	Min/max frequency at which the parameter should be fetched:
49.	Any requirement to provision security groups in the cloud?
          









Section 3: VNF Network Details:
50.	Do all of the VNF’s management interfaces have DHCP enabled?
51.	(If more than one VM in VNF) Is there a separate internal network required for inter-VM communication?"
52.	Do any of the interfaces require static IP address assignment at boot?
53.	Do any of the interfaces require floating-IP address assignment?
54.	Do any of the interfaces require anti-spoofing (port security) disabled?
55.	External Connection Point(s) 
o	ID / Name
o	Type of port
o	Layer Port - Identifies which protocol the CP uses for connectivity purposes
o	Internal Virtual Link Descriptor - Reference of a network ID in VLD
o	Bit Rate Requirement
o	Address Mappings
	Address Type (L2 or L3) : L2 Address / L3 Address
	L2 Address Details
•	MAC address of the port
•	VLAN ID of the port
•	Virtual Network ID of the port
	L3 Address Details
•	Specify if the address assignment is the responsibility of management and orchestration function or not. NOTE: If it is set to True, it is the management and orchestration function responsibility.
•	Floating IP activated?
•	IP Address Type (IPv4 or IPv6) : L2 Address / L3 Address
•	Number of IP addresses
o	NIC Capability









Section 4: VNF Orchestration Details:

56.	Has the VNF been booted under OpenStack version described in VCP Requirements Document?
57.	Has the VNF been booted under KVM prescribed in VCP Requirements document?
58.	Does VNF require a VNF-M (Yes / No)
o	(If Yes)Does the VNF require its own specific VNF-M? (Yes / No)
	(If yes)VNF-M has a MANO compliant Or-Vnfm interface?
	What format is the Or-Vnfm interface (REST, etc.)
	Which resource allocation model does the specific VNFM use: NFVO allocation or VNFM allocation?
	Is VNF-M complaint with all requirements in the VNF-M section of VCP Requirement Document? If no, describe all non-complaint requirements
	Can VNF-M instantiate VNF 5 directly? If yes, is it supported via REST API?
	Does VNF-M support upgrade to VNF? If yes, describe lifecycle involved in the upgrade
	Does VNF-M support downgrades to VNF? If yes, describe lifecycle involved in the downgrade
	Does VNF-M require admin access to the VIM? (Yes/No)
	How to provide OpenStack credentials to VNF-M, and how does VNF-M securely store the given credentials?


Section 5: VNF Verification Details:

59.	Describe how Verizon can quickly verify that the VNF is functioning properly. Provide a minimal sanity-test procedure and expected results.
60.	Provide Instructions for how to download a copy of your software images and product admin/configuration manuals, or attach a copy when you return this questionnaire.










Section 6: VNF Additional Details:

A.	Physical Resource 
61.	Does VM require affinity/anti-affinity placements?
62.	How many physical hosts are required to support a single instance of this VNF?
63.	For each constituent VM, note the EPA parameters to be used during instantiation.
B.	Scaling and Redundancy
64.	How should VM failures be handled?
65.	What is the VM Redundancy Schema (i.e., Local Intra Data Center and Geo-redundancy)?
C.	Post Install
66.	Describe how licensing works, if any. (Attach details, such as license server address, key, etc.)
67.	Do any of the interfaces require public internet connectivity, such as access to a licensing server or to a public software repository?
68.	Are there specific items that the operator must input during VNF instantiation, such as DNS, RADIUS, licensing servers, and so on. If yes, describe below.

